(Do not break any existing code, logic, workflow, security fix, or database schema)

Update the Aid Movement Dashboard and Item Distribution Dashboard to include a new Data Source filter that allows users to view movement data based on its origin (JDF vs MLSS), using the existing created_by field in the transaction table.

No schema changes must be made, and all existing logic must remain untouched.

1. New Filter – Data Source

Add a new filter control to both dashboards’ filter sections:

Label: “Data Source”

UI Component: Use the same dropdown/multiselect style used for existing filters.

Options:

All (default)

JDF

MLSS

Default Behaviour

When the dashboard first loads, default to All so existing behaviour remains unchanged.

2. Data Source Mapping Logic (No Schema Changes)

Use the existing created_by column in the transaction table to determine the data source:

created_by value	Data Source
HADR_IMPORT	JDF
IMPORT	JDF
MLSS_IMPORT	MLSS
Filter Rules

When the user selects:

All

Do not apply any filter on data source.

JDF

Apply:

created_by IN ('HADR_IMPORT', 'IMPORT')

MLSS

Apply:

created_by = 'MLSS_IMPORT'


This filter must be added in addition to (AND logic) existing filters such as item, movement type, date range, warehouse, etc.

3. Apply Filter Across Entire Dashboard

The Data Source filter must consistently affect:

Summary KPIs (received, issued, in-store)

Movement charts

Distribution charts

Item-level tables

Any aggregated or grouped views

Whenever the filter is changed:

Apply the correct WHERE clause

Refresh all dashboard components

Maintain stability of existing filters and workflow

4. UX & Access Control

The filter must use the same layout and visual style.

Position it beside existing filters (Warehouse, Item, Date Range, etc.).

No new permissions or routes must be added.

Only roles already allowed to access the dashboards should see the new filter.

5. Security, Performance & Safety Requirements

Do not modify:

Any database schema (tables, columns, keys, constraints)

Any security controls (CSP, CSRF, RBAC, cookie settings)

Any workflow logic for aid movement or item distribution

Any navigation menu or routing

Performance:

Filtering must use efficient WHERE conditions based on the existing created_by field.

6. Acceptance Criteria

When All is selected, results match existing dashboard behaviour exactly.

When JDF is selected, only rows where created_by IN ('HADR_IMPORT', 'IMPORT') appear.

When MLSS is selected, only rows where created_by = 'MLSS_IMPORT' appear.

All tables, KPIs, and charts refresh correctly without errors.

No code, workflow, schema, or security regression occurs after implementation.